documentation/architecture.md, before:

# architecture

The recon tool suite consists of two main components: the scanner (i.e. `scan.py`) and the analysis (i.e. `analyze.py`).
The scanner schedules and runs various tools, based on the results of an Nmap service scan.
The analysis component analyzes and summarizes results of specific tools.

## scanner

The scanner component (i.e. `scan.py`) takes the result of an Nmap service scan as its input, and schedules and runs various tools, based on the services that were found on a particular host.

```text
PORT      STATE  SERVICE  VERSION
22/tcp    open   ssh      OpenSSH 6.6.1p1 Ubuntu 2ubuntu2.13 (Ubuntu Linux; protocol 2.0)
443/tcp   open   https    Apache httpd 2.4.7 ((Ubuntu))
```

In the example above, Nmap reported an SSH and HTTP service (with TLS) on the host.
So the scanner might run an Nmap script scan targeting SSH, and Nikto and `testssl.sh` targeting HTTP and TLS.

The selection of tools, and the parameters used for each, can be specified in a [TOML](https://toml.io/en/) configuration file.
Below is an example for such a file:

```toml
[http]
patterns = [ 'http' ]

  [http.scans.nikto]
  command = 'nikto -ask no -Cgidirs all -host {hostname} -port {port} -nointeractive -Format xml -output "{result_file}.xml" 2>&1 | tee "{result_file}.log"'

[ssh]
patterns = [ '^ssh' ]

  [ssh.scans.nmap]
  command = 'nmap -Pn -sV -p {port} --script="banner,ssh2-enum-algos,ssh-hostkey,ssh-auth-methods" -oN "{result_file}.log" -oX "{result_file}.xml" {address}'

[tls]
patterns = [ 'https', '^ssl\|', '^tls\|' ]

  [tls.scans.testssl]
  command = 'testssl --ip one --nodns min --mapping no-openssl --warnings off --connect-timeout 60 --openssl-timeout 60 --logfile "{result_file}.log" --jsonfile "{result_file}.json" {hostname}:{port}'
```

Scan commands are grouped by the name of the protocol/service (e.g. `[http]`, `[ssh]` or `[tls]`).
The `patterns` array specifies the regular expressions on which the service's name (as identified by Nmap; e.g. `https`) is matched against.
As soon as a single entry matches, all commands in this group will be scheduled/executed.

Each scan command at least needs a header (i.e. `[<protocol>.scans.<tool name>]`) and the actual command (i.e. `command = '...'`).
It has access to the following variables (i.e. `{variable}`):

* `address`: this holds the host's IP address
* `transport_protocol`: this is either `tcp` or `udp`
* `port`: this holds the port number where a specific service was found
* `result_file`: this is the path to where the results are stored (i.e. `/path/to/project/recon/<address>/<service>[,<transport protocol>,<port>,...],<tool>.<ext>`)
* `application_protocol`: this holds the identified application protocol (e.g. `http`, `ssh`, `smtp`, etc.)

In case the service was identified as a web service, the following additional variables are available:

* `hostname`: this holds the host's DNS name, or its IP address
* `scheme`: this is either `http` or `https`

## analyzer

The analyzer (i.e. `analyze.py`) provides functionality to parse, analyze and summarize results of specific tools (e.g. `nmap`, `testssl`, `curl`, etc.).

Each service (e.g. HTTP, SSH, TLS, etc.) has its own analyzer "package" (e.g. [`analyzers/http/*`](../analyzers/http/), [`analyzers/ssh/*`](../analyzers/ssh/),  [`analyzers/tls/*`](../analyzers/tls/), etc.).
An analyzer package consists of an analyzer (i.e. `__init__.py`) and at least one parser (i.e. `<tool>.py`; one per tool).

![component diagram](analyzer.drawio.png)

A parser maps the result of a particular tool to a tool-agnostic representation of a service's configuration.
The representation schema is specified inside the analyzer (i.e. `SERVICE_SCHEMA = {...}`).
The compiled service configuration is analyzed (by the analyzer) based on some recommendations.
These recommendations are specified as TOML files (i.e. [`config/recommendations/<service>/*`](../config/recommendations/)).
TOML (or, more generally, a markup language) was chosen because it ensures that the recommendations are human-readable and therefore easier to maintain than code.

Based on a service's configuration (e.g. `'protocol_versions': ["TLS 1", ...],`) and the recommendations, the analyzer derives issues/vulnerabilities.
The issue descriptions (e.g. "protocol supported: TLS 1.0"), recommendations (e.g. "disable support for TLS 1.0") and links to references are stored in a TOML file (i.e. [`config/issues/<service>/<language>.toml`](../config/issues/)).
This allows easy translation of the information.

Commit message:

allow multiple scanner configs
the default config is always loaded first.
user-provided configs are loaded next, in the order they are specified on the command line.
normally, config files are merged:
globals and service configs (service patterns, command, command patterns, run-once flag) defined in a later config overwrite those with the same name from previous configs.
if you want to completely overwrite previous configs, provide the following in your config: `merge_strategy = 'overwrite'`

documentation/architecture.md, after:

# architecture

The recon tool suite consists of two main components: the scanner (i.e. `scan.py`) and the analysis (i.e. `analyze.py`).
The scanner schedules and runs various tools, based on the results of an Nmap service scan.
The analysis component analyzes and summarizes results of specific tools.

## scanner

The scanner component (i.e. `scan.py`) takes the result of an Nmap service scan as its input, and schedules and runs various tools, based on the services that were found on a particular host.

```text
PORT      STATE  SERVICE  VERSION
22/tcp    open   ssh      OpenSSH 6.6.1p1 Ubuntu 2ubuntu2.13 (Ubuntu Linux; protocol 2.0)
443/tcp   open   https    Apache httpd 2.4.7 ((Ubuntu))
```

In the example above, Nmap reported an SSH and HTTP service (with TLS) on the host.
So the scanner might run an Nmap script scan targeting SSH, and Nikto and `testssl.sh` targeting HTTP and TLS.

The selection of tools, and the parameters used for each, is specified in a [TOML](https://toml.io/en/) configuration file.
Below is an example configuration that results in the default one (i.e. `config/scanner.toml`) being ignored:

```toml
merge_strategy = 'overwrite'

[services]

[services.http]
patterns = [ 'http' ]

  [services.http.scans.nikto]
  command = 'nikto -ask no -Cgidirs all -host {hostname} -port {port} -nointeractive -Format xml -output "{result_file}.xml" 2>&1 | tee "{result_file}.log"'

[services.ssh]
patterns = [ '^ssh' ]

  [services.ssh.scans.nmap]
  command = 'nmap -Pn -sV -p {port} --script="banner,ssh2-enum-algos,ssh-hostkey,ssh-auth-methods" -oN "{result_file}.log" -oX "{result_file}.xml" {address}'

[services.tls]
patterns = [ 'https', '^ssl\|', '^tls\|' ]

  [services.tls.scans.testssl]
  command = 'testssl --ip one --nodns min --mapping no-openssl --warnings off --connect-timeout 60 --openssl-timeout 60 --logfile "{result_file}.log" --jsonfile "{result_file}.json" {hostname}:{port}'
```

Scan commands are grouped by the name of the protocol/service (e.g. `[services.http]`, `[services.ssh]` or `[services.tls]`).
The `patterns` array specifies the regular expressions on which the service's name (as identified by Nmap; e.g. `https`) is matched against.
As soon as a single entry matches, all commands in this group will be scheduled/executed.

Each scan command at least needs a header (i.e. `[services.<protocol>.scans.<tool name>]`) and the actual command (i.e. `command = '...'`).
It has access to the following variables (i.e. `{variable}`):

* `address`: this holds the host's IP address
* `transport_protocol`: this is either `tcp` or `udp`
* `port`: this holds the port number where a specific service was found
* `result_file`: this is the path to where the results are stored (i.e. `/path/to/project/recon/<address>/<service>[,<transport protocol>,<port>,...],<tool>.<ext>`)
* `application_protocol`: this holds the identified application protocol (e.g. `http`, `ssh`, `smtp`, etc.)

In case the service was identified as a web service, the following additional variables are available:

* `hostname`: this holds the host's DNS name, or its IP address
* `scheme`: this is either `http` or `https`

## analyzer

The analyzer (i.e. `analyze.py`) provides functionality to parse, analyze and summarize results of specific tools (e.g. `nmap`, `testssl`, `curl`, etc.).

Each service (e.g. HTTP, SSH, TLS, etc.) has its own analyzer "package" (e.g. [`analyzers/http/*`](../analyzers/http/), [`analyzers/ssh/*`](../analyzers/ssh/),  [`analyzers/tls/*`](../analyzers/tls/), etc.).
An analyzer package consists of an analyzer (i.e. `__init__.py`) and at least one parser (i.e. `<tool>.py`; one per tool).

![component diagram](analyzer.drawio.png)

A parser maps the result of a particular tool to a tool-agnostic representation of a service's configuration.
The representation schema is specified inside the analyzer (i.e. `SERVICE_SCHEMA = {...}`).
The compiled service configuration is analyzed (by the analyzer) based on some recommendations.
These recommendations are specified as TOML files (i.e. [`config/recommendations/<service>/*`](../config/recommendations/)).
TOML (or, more generally, a markup language) was chosen because it ensures that the recommendations are human-readable and therefore easier to maintain than code.

Based on a service's configuration (e.g. `'protocol_versions': ["TLS 1", ...],`) and the recommendations, the analyzer derives issues/vulnerabilities.
The issue descriptions (e.g. "protocol supported: TLS 1.0"), recommendations (e.g. "disable support for TLS 1.0") and links to references are stored in a TOML file (i.e. [`config/issues/<service>/<language>.toml`](../config/issues/)).
This allows easy translation of the information.
